§2B1.1. Larceny, Embezzlement, and Other Forms of Theft; Offenses InvolvingStolen Property; Property Damage or Destruction; Fraud and Deceit;Forgery; Offenses Involving Altered or Counterfeit Instruments Otherthan Counterfeit Bearer Obligations of the United States(a) Base Offense Level:

(1) 7, if (A) the defendant was convicted of an offense referenced tothis guideline; and (B) that offense of conviction has a statutorymaximum term of imprisonment of 20 years or more; or

(2) 6, otherwise.

(b) Specific Offense Characteristics

(1) If the loss exceeded $6,500, increase the offense level as follows:

LOSS (APPLY THE GREATEST) | INCREASE IN LEVEL
------------------------- | -----------------
(A) $6,500 or less | no increase
(B) More than $6,500 | add 2
(C) More than $15,000 | add 4
(D) More than $40,000 | add 6
(E) More than $95,000 | add 8
(F) More than $150,000 | add 10
(G) More than $250,000 | add 12
(H) More than $550,000 | add 14
(I) More than $1,500,000 | add 16
(J) More than $3,500,000 | add 18
(K) More than $9,500,000 | add 20
(L) More than $25,000,000 | add 22
(M) More than $65,000,000 | add 24
(N) More than $150,000,000 | add 26
(O) More than $250,000,000 | add 28
(P) More than $550,000,000 | add 30.

(2) (Apply the greatest) If the offense—

(A) (i) involved 10 or more victims; (ii) was committed throughmass-marketing; or (iii) resulted in substantial financialhardship to one or more victims, increase by 2 levels;

(B) resulted in substantial financial hardship to five or morevictims, increase by 4 levels; or

(C) resulted in substantial financial hardship to 25 or morevictims, increase by 6 levels.

(3) If the offense involved a theft from the person of another, increase by 2 levels.

(4) If the offense involved receiving stolen property, and the defendant was a person in the business of receiving and sellingstolen property, increase by 2 levels.

(5) If the offense involved theft of, damage to, destruction of, ortrafficking in, property from a national cemetery or veterans’memorial, increase by 2 levels.

(6) If (A) the defendant was convicted of an offense under 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1037; and (B) the offense involved obtaining electronic mailaddresses through improper means, increase by 2 levels.

(7) If (A) the defendant was convicted of a Federal health care offense involving a Government health care program; and (B) the loss under subsection (b)(1) to the Government health care program was (i) more than $1,000,000, increase by 2 levels;(ii) more than $7,000,000, increase by 3 levels; or (iii) morethan $20,000,000, increase by 4 levels.

(8) (Apply the greater) If—(A) the offense involved conduct described in 18 U.S.C. § 670, increase by 2 levels; or§2B1.1(B) the offense involved conduct described in 18 U.S.C. § 670, and the defendant was employed by, or was an agent of, an organization in the supply chain for the pre-retail medical product, increase by 4 levels.

(9) If the offense involved (A) a misrepresentation that the defendant was acting on behalf of a charitable, educational, religious, or political organization, or a government agency; (B) a misrepresentation or other fraudulent action during the course of a bankruptcy proceeding; (C) a violation of any prior, specific judicial or administrative order, injunction, decree, or process not addressed elsewhere in the guidelines; or (D) a misrepresentation to a consumer in connection with obtaining, providing, orfurnishing financial assistance for an institution of higher education, increase by 2 levels. If the resulting offense level is less than level 10, increase to level 10.

(10) If (A) the defendant relocated, or participated in relocating, a fraudulent scheme to another jurisdiction to evade law enforcement or regulatory officials; (B) a substantial part of a fraudulent scheme was committed from outside the United States; or(C) the offense otherwise involved sophisticated means and the defendant intentionally engaged in or caused the conduct constituting sophisticated means, increase by 2 levels. If the resulting offense level is less than level 12, increase to level 12.

(11) If the offense involved (A) the possession or use of any (i) device-making equipment, or (ii) authentication feature; (B) the production or trafficking of any (i) unauthorized access deviceor counterfeit access device, or (ii) authentication feature; or(C)(i) the unauthorized transfer or use of any means of identification unlawfully to produce or obtain any other means ofidentification, or (ii) the possession of 5 or more means of identification that unlawfully were produced from, or obtained bythe use of, another means of identification, increase by 2 levels.

If the resulting offense level is less than level 12, increase tolevel 12.

(12) If the offense involved conduct described in 18 U.S.C. § 1040, increase by 2 levels. If the resulting offense level is less than level 12, increase to level 12.

(13) (Apply the greater) If the offense involved misappropriation ofa trade secret and the defendant knew or intended—
(A) that the trade secret would be transported or transmittedout of the United States, increase by 2 levels; or
(B) that the offense would benefit a foreign government, foreign instrumentality, or foreign agent, increase by 4 levels.

If subparagraph (B) applies and the resulting offense level is less than level 14, increase to level 14.

(14) If the offense involved an organized scheme to steal or to receive stolen (A) vehicles or vehicle parts; or (B) goods or chattels that are part of a cargo shipment, increase by 2 levels. Ifthe resulting offense level is less than level 14, increase to level14.

(15) If the offense involved (A) the conscious or reckless risk ofdeath or serious bodily injury; or (B) possession of a dangerousweapon (including a firearm) in connection with the offense, increase by 2 levels. If the resulting offense level is less than level 14, increase to level 14.

(16) (Apply the greater) If—
(A) the defendant derived more than $1,000,000 in gross receipts from one or more financial institutions as a resultof the offense, increase by 2 levels; or
(B) the offense (i) substantially jeopardized the safety andsoundness of a financial institution; or (ii) substantiallyendangered the solvency or financial security of an organization that, at any time during the offense, (I) was a publicly traded company; or (II) had 1,000 or more employees, increase by 4 levels.
(C) The cumulative adjustments from application of both subsections (b)(2) and (b)(16)(B) shall not exceed 8 levels, except as provided in subdivision (D).
(D) If the resulting offense level determined under subdivision(A) or (B) is less than level 24, increase to level 24.

(17) If (A) the defendant was convicted of an offense under 18 U.S.C. § 1030, and the offense involved an intent to obtain personalinformation, or (B) the offense involved the unauthorized public dissemination of personal information, increase by 2 levels.

(18) (A) (Apply the greatest) If the defendant was convicted of anoffense under:

(i) 18 U.S.C. § 1030, and the offense involved a computersystem used to maintain or operate a critical infrastructure, or used by or for a government entity infurtherance of the administration of justice, nationaldefense, or national security, increase by 2 levels.

(ii) 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5)(A), increase by 4 levels.

(iii) 18 U.S.C. § 1030, and the offense caused a substantial disruption of a critical infrastructure, increase by 6 levels.

(B) If subdivision (A)(iii) applies, and the offense level is lessthan level 24, increase to level 24.

(19) If the offense involved—
(A) a violation of securities law and, at the time of the offense, the defendant was (i) an officer or a director of a publiclytraded company; (ii) a registered broker or dealer, or a person associated with a broker or dealer; or (iii) an investment adviser, or a person associated with an investmentadviser; or
(B) a violation of commodities law and, at the time of the offense, the defendant was (i) an officer or a director of a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker;(ii) a commodities trading advisor; or (iii) a commoditypool operator, increase by 4 levels.

(c) Cross References

(1) If (A) a firearm, destructive device, explosive material, or controlled substance was taken, or the taking of any such item wasan object of the offense; or (B) the stolen property received, transported, transferred, transmitted, or possessed was a firearm, destructive device, explosive material, or controlled substance, apply §2D1.1 (Unlawful Manufacturing, Importing, Exporting, or Trafficking (Including Possession with Intent toCommit These Offenses); Attempt or Conspiracy), §2D2.1 (Unlawful Possession; Attempt or Conspiracy), §2K1.3 (UnlawfulReceipt, Possession, or Transportation of Explosive Materials;§2B1.1Prohibited Transactions Involving Explosive Materials), or§2K2.1 (Unlawful Receipt, Possession, or Transportation ofFirearms or Ammunition; Prohibited Transactions InvolvingFirearms or Ammunition), as appropriate.

(2) If the offense involved arson, or property damage by use of explosives, apply §2K1.4 (Arson; Property Damage by Use of Explosives), if the resulting offense level is greater than that determined above.

(3) If (A) neither subdivision (1) nor (2) of this subsection applies;(B) the defendant was convicted under a statute proscribingfalse, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representationsgenerally (e.g., 18 U.S.C. § 1001, § 1341, § 1342, or § 1343); and(C) the conduct set forth in the count of conviction establishesan offense specifically covered by another guideline in ChapterTwo (Offense Conduct), apply that other guideline.

(4) If the offense involved a cultural heritage resource or a paleontological resource, apply §2B1.5 (Theft of, Damage to, or Destruction of, Cultural Heritage Resources or PaleontologicalResources; Unlawful Sale, Purchase, Exchange, Transportation, or Receipt of Cultural Heritage Resources or Paleontological Resources), if the resulting offense level is greater than that determined above.

Commentary

Statutory Provisions: 7 U.S.C. §§ 6, 6b, 6c, 6h, 6o, 13, 23; 15 U.S.C. §§ 50, 77e, 77q, 77x, 78j, 78ff, 80b-6, 1644, 6821; 18 U.S.C. §§ 38, 225, 285–289, 471–473, 500, 510, 553(a)(1), 641, 656, 657, 659, 662, 664, 1001–1008, 1010–1014, 1016–1022, 1025, 1026, 1028, 1029, 1030(a)(4)–(5), 1031, 1037, 1040, 1341–1344, 1348, 1350, 1361, 1363, 1369, 1702, 1703 (if vandalism or malicious mischief, including destruction of mail, is involved), 1708, 1831, 1832, 1992(a)(1), (a)(5), 2113(b), 2282A, 2282B, 2291, 2312–2317, 2332b(a)(1), 2701; 19 U.S.C. § 2401f; 29 U.S.C.

§ 501(c); 42 U.S.C. § 1011; 49 U.S.C. §§ 14915, 30170, 46317(a), 60123(b). For additional statutory provision(s), see Appendix A (Statutory Index).

Application Notes:

1. Definitions.—For purposes of this guideline:
    “Cultural heritage resource” has the meaning given that term in Application Note 1of the Commentary to §2B1.5 (Theft of, Damage to, or Destruction of, Cultural HeritageResources or Paleontological Resources; Unlawful Sale, Purchase, Exchange, Transportation, or Receipt of Cultural Heritage Resources or Paleontological Resources).

    “Equity securities” has the meaning given that term in section 3(a)(11) of the SecuritiesExchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(11)).

    “Federal health care offense” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. § 24.

    “Financial institution” includes any institution described in 18 U.S.C. § 20, § 656, § 657, § 1005, § 1006, § 1007, or § 1014; any state or foreign bank, trust company, creditunion, insurance company, investment company, mutual fund, savings (building andloan) association, union or employee pension fund; any health, medical, or hospital insurance association; brokers and dealers registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission; futures commodity merchants and commodity pooloperators registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures TradingCommission; and any similar entity, whether or not insured by the federal government.

    “Union or employee pension fund” and “any health, medical, or hospital insurance association,” primarily include large pension funds that serve many persons (e.g., pensionfunds of large national and international organizations, unions, and corporations doingsubstantial interstate business), and associations that undertake to provide pension, disability, or other benefits (e.g., medical or hospitalization insurance) to large numbers ofpersons.

    “Firearm” and “destructive device” have the meaning given those terms in the Commentary to §1B1.1 (Application Instructions).

    “Foreign instrumentality” and “foreign agent” have the meaning given those termsin 18 U.S.C. § 1839(1) and (2), respectively.

    “Government health care program” means any plan or program that provides healthbenefits, whether directly, through insurance, or otherwise, which is funded directly, inwhole or in part, by federal or state government. Examples of such programs are the Medicare program, the Medicaid program, and the CHIP program.

    “Means of identification” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. § 1028(d)(7), except that such means of identification shall be of an actual (i.e., not fictitious) individual, other than the defendant or a person for whose conduct the defendant is accountableunder §1B1.3 (Relevant Conduct).

    “National cemetery” means a cemetery (A) established under section 2400 of title 38, United States Code; or (B) under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, or the Secretary of the Interior.

    “Paleontological resource” has the meaning given that term in Application Note 1 ofthe Commentary to §2B1.5 (Theft of, Damage to, or Destruction of, Cultural HeritageResources or Paleontological Resources; Unlawful Sale, Purchase, Exchange, Transportation, or Receipt of Cultural Heritage Resources or Paleontological Resources).

    “Personal information” means sensitive or private information involving an identifiable individual (including such information in the possession of a third party), including(A) medical records; (B) wills; (C) diaries; (D) private correspondence, including e-mail;(E) financial records; (F) photographs of a sensitive or private nature; or (G) similar information.

    “Pre-retail medical product” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. § 670(e).

    “Publicly traded company” means an issuer (A) with a class of securities registeredunder section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78l); or (B) that is required to file reports under section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934(15 U.S.C. § 78o(d)). “Issuer” has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78c).

    “Supply chain” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. § 670(e).

    “Theft from the person of another” means theft, without the use of force, of propertythat was being held by another person or was within arms’ reach. Examples include pickpocketing and non-forcible purse-snatching, such as the theft of a purse from a shoppingcart.

    “Trade secret” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. § 1839(3).

    “Veterans’ memorial” means any structure, plaque, statue, or other monument described in 18 U.S.C. § 1369(a).

    “Victim” means (A) any person who sustained any part of the actual loss determinedunder subsection (b)(1); or (B) any individual who sustained bodily injury as a result ofthe offense. “Person” includes individuals, corporations, companies, associations, firms, partnerships, societies, and joint stock companies.

2. Application of Subsection (a)(1).—

(A) “Referenced to this Guideline”.—For purposes of subsection (a)(1), an offense is “referenced to this guideline” if (i) this guideline is the applicable Chapter Twoguideline determined under the provisions of §1B1.2 (Applicable Guidelines) for the offense of conviction; or (ii) in the case of a conviction for conspiracy, solicitation, orattempt to which §2X1.1 (Attempt, Solicitation, or Conspiracy) applies, this guideline is the appropriate guideline for the offense the defendant was convicted of conspiring, soliciting, or attempting to commit.

(B) Definition of “Statutory Maximum Term of Imprisonment”.—For purposesof this guideline, “statutory maximum term of imprisonment” means the maximum term of imprisonment authorized for the offense of conviction, including anyincrease in that maximum term under a statutory enhancement provision.

(C) Base Offense Level Determination for Cases Involving Multiple Counts.—In a case involving multiple counts sentenced under this guideline, the applicablebase offense level is determined by the count of conviction that provides the higheststatutory maximum term of imprisonment.

3. Loss Under Subsection (b)(1).—This application note applies to the determination ofloss under subsection (b)(1).

(A) General Rule.—Subject to the exclusions in subdivision (D), loss is the greater ofactual loss or intended loss.

    (i) Actual Loss.—“Actual loss” means the reasonably foreseeable pecuniaryharm that resulted from the offense.

    (ii) Intended Loss.—“Intended loss” (I) means the pecuniary harm that the defendant purposely sought to inflict; and (II) includes intended pecuniary harmthat would have been impossible or unlikely to occur (e.g., as in a governmentsting operation, or an insurance fraud in which the claim exceeded the insuredvalue).

    §2B1.1(iii) Pecuniary Harm.—“Pecuniary harm” means harm that is monetary orthat otherwise is readily measurable in money. Accordingly, pecuniary harmdoes not include emotional distress, harm to reputation, or other non-economic harm.

    (iv) Reasonably Foreseeable Pecuniary Harm.—For purposes of this guideline, “reasonably foreseeable pecuniary harm” means pecuniary harmthat the defendant knew or, under the circumstances, reasonably should haveknown, was a potential result of the offense.

    (v) Rules of Construction in Certain Cases.—In the cases described in subdivisions (I) through (III), reasonably foreseeable pecuniary harm shall be considered to include the pecuniary harm specified for those cases as follows:
    
        (I) Product Substitution Cases.—In the case of a product substitutionoffense, the reasonably foreseeable pecuniary harm includes the reasonably foreseeable costs of making substitute transactions and handling ordisposing of the product delivered, or of retrofitting the product so thatit can be used for its intended purpose, and the reasonably foreseeablecosts of rectifying the actual or potential disruption to the victim’s business operations caused by the product substitution.

        (II) Procurement Fraud Cases.—In the case of a procurement fraud, suchas a fraud affecting a defense contract award, reasonably foreseeable pecuniary harm includes the reasonably foreseeable administrative coststo the government and other participants of repeating or correcting the procurement action affected, plus any increased costs to procure the product or service involved that was reasonably foreseeable.

        (III) Offenses Under 18 U.S.C. § 1030.—In the case of an offense under18 U.S.C. § 1030, actual loss includes the following pecuniary harm, regardless of whether such pecuniary harm was reasonably foreseeable:any reasonable cost to any victim, including the cost of responding to anoffense, conducting a damage assessment, and restoring the data, program, system, or information to its condition prior to the offense, andany revenue lost, cost incurred, or other damages incurred because ofinterruption of service.

(B) Gain.—The court shall use the gain that resulted from the offense as an alternativemeasure of loss only if there is a loss but it reasonably cannot be determined.

(C) Estimation of Loss.—The court need only make a reasonable estimate of the loss. The sentencing judge is in a unique position to assess the evidence and estimatethe loss based upon that evidence. For this reason, the court’s loss determination is entitled to appropriate deference. See 18 U.S.C. § 3742(e) and (f).

The estimate of the loss shall be based on available information, taking into account, as appropriate and practicable under the circumstances, factors such as the following:

(i) The fair market value of the property unlawfully taken, copied, or destroyed;or, if the fair market value is impracticable to determine or inadequatelymeasures the harm, the cost to the victim of replacing that property.

(ii) In the case of proprietary information (e.g., trade secrets), the cost of developing that information or the reduction in the value of that information thatresulted from the offense.

(iii) The cost of repairs to damaged property.

(iv) The approximate number of victims multiplied by the average loss to eachvictim.

(v) The reduction that resulted from the offense in the value of equity securitiesor other corporate assets.

(vi) More general factors, such as the scope and duration of the offense and revenues generated by similar operations.

(D) Exclusions from Loss.—Loss shall not include the following:(i) Interest of any kind, finance charges, late fees, penalties, amounts based onan agreed-upon return or rate of return, or other similar costs.

(ii) Costs to the government of, and costs incurred by victims primarily to aid the government in, the prosecution and criminal investigation of an offense.

(E) Credits Against Loss.—Loss shall be reduced by the following:(i) The money returned, and the fair market value of the property returned andthe services rendered, by the defendant or other persons acting jointly with the defendant, to the victim before the offense was detected. The time of detection of the offense is the earlier of (I) the time the offense was discoveredby a victim or government agency; or (II) the time the defendant knew or reasonably should have known that the offense was detected or about to be detected by a victim or government agency.

(ii) In a case involving collateral pledged or otherwise provided by the defendant, the amount the victim has recovered at the time of sentencing from dispositionof the collateral, or if the collateral has not been disposed of by that time, the fair market value of the collateral at the time of sentencing.

(iii) Notwithstanding clause (ii), in the case of a fraud involving a mortgage loan, if the collateral has not been disposed of by the time of sentencing, use the fairmarket value of the collateral as of the date on which the guilt of the defendanthas been established, whether by guilty plea, trial, or plea of nolo contendere.

In such a case, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the most recenttax assessment value of the collateral is a reasonable estimate of the fair market value. In determining whether the most recent tax assessment value is a reasonable estimate of the fair market value, the court may consider, amongother factors, the recency of the tax assessment and the extent to which the jurisdiction’s tax assessment practices reflect factors not relevant to fair market value.

(F) Special Rules.—Notwithstanding subdivision (A), the following special rules shallbe used to assist in determining loss in the cases indicated:§2B1.1(i) Stolen or Counterfeit Credit Cards and Access Devices; PurloinedNumbers and Codes.—In a case involving any counterfeit access device orunauthorized access device, loss includes any unauthorized charges madewith the counterfeit access device or unauthorized access device and shall benot less than $500 per access device. However, if the unauthorized access device is a means of telecommunications access that identifies a specific telecommunications instrument or telecommunications account (including an electronic serial number/mobile identification number (ESN/MIN) pair), and thatmeans was only possessed, and not used, during the commission of the offense, loss shall be not less than $100 per unused means. For purposes of this subdivision, “counterfeit access device” and “unauthorized access device”have the meaning given those terms in Application Note 10(A).

(ii) Government Benefits.—In a case involving government benefits (e.g., grants, loans, entitlement program payments), loss shall be considered to benot less than the value of the benefits obtained by unintended recipients ordiverted to unintended uses, as the case may be. For example, if the defendantwas the intended recipient of food stamps having a value of $100 but fraudulently received food stamps having a value of $150, loss is $50.

(iii) Davis–Bacon Act Violations.—In a case involving a Davis–Bacon Act violation (i.e., a violation of 40 U.S.C. § 3142, criminally prosecuted under18 U.S.C. § 1001), the value of the benefits shall be considered to be not lessthan the difference between the legally required wages and actual wages paid.

(iv) Ponzi and Other Fraudulent Investment Schemes.—In a case involvinga fraudulent investment scheme, such as a Ponzi scheme, loss shall not bereduced by the money or the value of the property transferred to any individual investor in the scheme in excess of that investor’s principal investment(i.e., the gain to an individual investor in the scheme shall not be used to offsetthe loss to another individual investor in the scheme).

(v) Certain Other Unlawful Misrepresentation Schemes.—In a case involving a scheme in which (I) services were fraudulently rendered to the victim bypersons falsely posing as licensed professionals; (II) goods were falsely represented as approved by a governmental regulatory agency; or (III) goods for which regulatory approval by a government agency was required but not obtained, or was obtained by fraud, loss shall include the amount paid for the property, services or goods transferred, rendered, or misrepresented, with nocredit provided for the value of those items or services.

(vi) Value of Controlled Substances.—In a case involving controlled substances, loss is the estimated street value of the controlled substances.

(vii) Value of Cultural Heritage Resources or Paleontological Resources.—In a case involving a cultural heritage resource or paleontological resource, loss attributable to that resource shall be determined in accordance with the rules for determining the “value of the resource” set forth in ApplicationNote 2 of the Commentary to §2B1.5.

(viii) Federal Health Care Offenses Involving Government Health CarePrograms.—In a case in which the defendant is convicted of a Federal healthcare offense involving a Government health care program, the aggregate dol§2B1.1lar amount of fraudulent bills submitted to the Government health care program shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the intended loss, i.e., is evidence sufficient to establish the amount of the intended loss, if not rebutted.

(ix) Fraudulent Inflation or Deflation in Value of Securities or Commodities.—In a case involving the fraudulent inflation or deflation in the value ofa publicly traded security or commodity, the court in determining loss mayuse any method that is appropriate and practicable under the circumstances.

One such method the court may consider is a method under which the actualloss attributable to the change in value of the security or commodity is the amount determined by—(I) calculating the difference between the average price of the security orcommodity during the period that the fraud occurred and the averageprice of the security or commodity during the 90-day period after the fraud was disclosed to the market, and(II) multiplying the difference in average price by the number of shares outstanding.

In determining whether the amount so determined is a reasonable estimateof the actual loss attributable to the change in value of the security or commodity, the court may consider, among other factors, the extent to which the amount so determined includes significant changes in value not resulting fromthe offense (e.g., changes caused by external market forces, such as changedeconomic circumstances, changed investor expectations, and new industryspecific or firm-specific facts, conditions, or events).

4. Application of Subsection (b)(2).—(A) Definition.—For purposes of subsection (b)(2), “mass-marketing” means a plan, program, promotion, or campaign that is conducted through solicitation by telephone, mail, the Internet, or other means to induce a large number of persons to(i) purchase goods or services; (ii) participate in a contest or sweepstakes; or (iii) invest for financial profit. “Mass-marketing” includes, for example, a telemarketingcampaign that solicits a large number of individuals to purchase fraudulent lifeinsurance policies.

(B) Applicability to Transmission of Multiple Commercial Electronic MailMessages.—For purposes of subsection (b)(2), an offense under 18 U.S.C. § 1037, or any other offense involving conduct described in 18 U.S.C. § 1037, shall be considered to have been committed through mass-marketing. Accordingly, the defendant shall receive at least a two-level enhancement under subsection (b)(2) and may, depending on the facts of the case, receive a greater enhancement under such subsection, if the defendant was convicted under, or the offense involved conduct described in, 18 U.S.C. § 1037.

(C) Undelivered United States Mail.—(i) In General.—In a case in which undelivered United States mail was taken, or the taking of such item was an object of the offense, or in a case in whichthe stolen property received, transported, transferred, transmitted, or possessed was undelivered United States mail, “victim” means (I) any victim as§2B1.1defined in Application Note 1; or (II) any person who was the intended recipient, or addressee, of the undelivered United States mail.

(ii) Special Rule.—A case described in subdivision (C)(i) of this note that involved—(I) a United States Postal Service relay box, collection box, delivery vehicle, satchel, or cart, shall be considered to have involved at least 10 victims.

(II) a housing unit cluster box or any similar receptacle that contains multiple mailboxes, whether such receptacle is owned by the United StatesPostal Service or otherwise owned, shall, unless proven otherwise, bepresumed to have involved the number of victims corresponding to the number of mailboxes in each cluster box or similar receptacle.

(iii) Definition.—“Undelivered United States mail” means mail that has not actually been received by the addressee or the addressee’s agent (e.g., mailtaken from the addressee’s mail box).

(D) Vulnerable Victims.—If subsection (b)(2)(B) or (C) applies, an enhancement under §3A1.1(b)(2) shall not apply.

(E) Cases Involving Means of Identification.—For purposes of subsection (b)(2), ina case involving means of identification “victim” means (i) any victim as defined inApplication Note 1; or (ii) any individual whose means of identification was usedunlawfully or without authority.

(F) Substantial Financial Hardship.—In determining whether the offense resultedin substantial financial hardship to a victim, the court shall consider, among otherfactors, whether the offense resulted in the victim—(i) becoming insolvent;(ii) filing for bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Code (title 11, United StatesCode);(iii) suffering substantial loss of a retirement, education, or other savings or investment fund;(iv) making substantial changes to his or her employment, such as postponing his or her retirement plans;(v) making substantial changes to his or her living arrangements, such as relocating to a less expensive home; and(vi) suffering substantial harm to his or her ability to obtain credit.

5. Enhancement for Business of Receiving and Selling Stolen Property under Subsection (b)(4).—For purposes of subsection (b)(4), the court shall consider the followingnon-exhaustive list of factors in determining whether the defendant was in the businessof receiving and selling stolen property:(A) The regularity and sophistication of the defendant’s activities.

§2B1.1(B) The value and size of the inventory of stolen property maintained by the defendant.

(C) The extent to which the defendant’s activities encouraged or facilitated othercrimes.

(D) The defendant’s past activities involving stolen property.

6. Application of Subsection (b)(6).—For purposes of subsection (b)(6), “impropermeans” includes the unauthorized harvesting of electronic mail addresses of users of a website, proprietary service, or other online public forum.

7. Application of Subsection (b)(8)(B).—If subsection (b)(8)(B) applies, do not apply anadjustment under §3B1.3 (Abuse of Position of Trust or Use of Special Skill).

8. Application of Subsection (b)(9).—(A) In General.—The adjustments in subsection (b)(9) are alternative rather than cumulative. If, in a particular case, however, more than one of the enumerated factorsapplied, an upward departure may be warranted.

(B) Misrepresentations Regarding Charitable and Other Institutions.—Subsection (b)(9)(A) applies in any case in which the defendant represented that the defendant was acting to obtain a benefit on behalf of a charitable, educational, religious, or political organization, or a government agency (regardless of whether the defendant actually was associated with the organization or government agency)when, in fact, the defendant intended to divert all or part of that benefit (e.g., for the defendant’s personal gain). Subsection (b)(9)(A) applies, for example, to the following:(i) A defendant who solicited contributions for a non-existent famine relief organization.

(ii) A defendant who solicited donations from church members by falsely claimingto be a fundraiser for a religiously affiliated school.

(iii) A defendant, chief of a local fire department, who conducted a public fundraiser representing that the purpose of the fundraiser was to procure sufficient funds for a new fire engine when, in fact, the defendant intended to divert some of the funds for the defendant’s personal benefit.

(C) Fraud in Contravention of Prior Judicial Order.—Subsection (b)(9)(C) provides an enhancement if the defendant commits a fraud in contravention of a prior, official judicial or administrative warning, in the form of an order, injunction, decree, or process, to take or not to take a specified action. A defendant who does not comply with such a prior, official judicial or administrative warning demonstratesaggravated criminal intent and deserves additional punishment. If it is establishedthat an entity the defendant controlled was a party to the prior proceeding thatresulted in the official judicial or administrative action, and the defendant hadknowledge of that prior decree or order, this enhancement applies even if the defendant was not a specifically named party in that prior case. For example, a defendant whose business previously was enjoined from selling a dangerous product, but who nonetheless engaged in fraudulent conduct to sell the product, is subject tothis enhancement. This enhancement does not apply if the same conduct resultedin an enhancement pursuant to a provision found elsewhere in the guidelines§2B1.1(e.g., a violation of a condition of release addressed in §3C1.3 (Commission of Offense While on Release) or a violation of probation addressed in §4A1.1 (CriminalHistory Category)).

(D) College Scholarship Fraud.—For purposes of subsection (b)(9)(D):“Financial assistance” means any scholarship, grant, loan, tuition, discount, award, or other financial assistance for the purpose of financing an education.

“Institution of higher education” has the meaning given that term in section 101of the Higher Education Act of 1954 (20 U.S.C. § 1001).

(E) Non-Applicability of Chapter Three Adjustments.—(i) Subsection (b)(9)(A).—If the conduct that forms the basis for an enhancement under subsection (b)(9)(A) is the only conduct that forms the basis for anadjustment under §3B1.3 (Abuse of Position of Trust or Use of Special Skill), do not apply that adjustment under §3B1.3.

(ii) Subsection (b)(9)(B) and (C).—If the conduct that forms the basis for anenhancement under subsection (b)(9)(B) or (C) is the only conduct that formsthe basis for an adjustment under §3C1.1 (Obstructing or Impeding the Administration of Justice), do not apply that adjustment under §3C1.1.

9. Application of Subsection (b)(10).—(A) Definition of United States.—For purposes of subsection (b)(10)(B), “UnitedStates” means each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealthof Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.

(B) Sophisticated Means Enhancement under Subsection (b)(10)(C).—For purposes of subsection (b)(10)(C), “sophisticated means” means especially complex orespecially intricate offense conduct pertaining to the execution or concealment ofan offense. For example, in a telemarketing scheme, locating the main office of the scheme in one jurisdiction but locating soliciting operations in another jurisdictionordinarily indicates sophisticated means. Conduct such as hiding assets or transactions, or both, through the use of fictitious entities, corporate shells, or offshore financial accounts also ordinarily indicates sophisticated means.

(C) Non-Applicability of Chapter Three Adjustment.—If the conduct that formsthe basis for an enhancement under subsection (b)(10) is the only conduct thatforms the basis for an adjustment under §3C1.1, do not apply that adjustment under §3C1.1.

10. Application of Subsection (b)(11).—(A) Definitions.—For purposes of subsection (b)(11):“Authentication feature” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C.

§ 1028(d)(1).

§2B1.1“Counterfeit access device” (i) has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C.

§ 1029(e)(2); and (ii) includes a telecommunications instrument that has been modified or altered to obtain unauthorized use of telecommunications service.

“Device-making equipment” (i) has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C.

§ 1029(e)(6); and (ii) includes (I) any hardware or software that has been configuredas described in 18 U.S.C. § 1029(a)(9); and (II) a scanning receiver referred to in18 U.S.C. § 1029(a)(8). “Scanning receiver” has the meaning given that term in18 U.S.C. § 1029(e)(8).

“Produce” includes manufacture, design, alter, authenticate, duplicate, or assemble. “Production” includes manufacture, design, alteration, authentication, duplication, or assembly.

“Telecommunications service” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C.

§ 1029(e)(9).

“Unauthorized access device” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C.

§ 1029(e)(3).

(B) Authentication Features and Identification Documents.—Offenses involvingauthentication features, identification documents, false identification documents, and means of identification, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1028, also are covered by this guideline. If the primary purpose of the offense, under 18 U.S.C. § 1028, was toviolate, or assist another to violate, the law pertaining to naturalization, citizenship, or legal resident status, apply §2L2.1 (Trafficking in a Document Relating toNaturalization) or §2L2.2 (Fraudulently Acquiring Documents Relating to Naturalization), as appropriate, rather than this guideline.

(C) Application of Subsection (b)(11)(C)(i).—(i) In General.—Subsection (b)(11)(C)(i) applies in a case in which a means ofidentification of an individual other than the defendant (or a person for whoseconduct the defendant is accountable under §1B1.3 (Relevant Conduct)) is used without that individual’s authorization unlawfully to produce or obtainanother means of identification.

(ii) Examples.—Examples of conduct to which subsection (b)(11)(C)(i) applies areas follows:(I) A defendant obtains an individual’s name and social security numberfrom a source (e.g., from a piece of mail taken from the individual’s mailbox) and obtains a bank loan in that individual’s name. In this example, the account number of the bank loan is the other means of identificationthat has been obtained unlawfully.

(II) A defendant obtains an individual’s name and address from a source(e.g., from a driver’s license in a stolen wallet) and applies for, obtains, and subsequently uses a credit card in that individual’s name. In this example, the credit card is the other means of identification that hasbeen obtained unlawfully.

(iii) Non-Applicability of Subsection (b)(11)(C)(i).—Examples of conduct towhich subsection (b)(11)(C)(i) does not apply are as follows:§2B1.1(I) A defendant uses a credit card from a stolen wallet only to make a purchase. In such a case, the defendant has not used the stolen credit cardto obtain another means of identification.

(II) A defendant forges another individual’s signature to cash a stolen check.

Forging another individual’s signature is not producing another meansof identification.

(D) Application of Subsection (b)(11)(C)(ii).—Subsection (b)(11)(C)(ii) applies inany case in which the offense involved the possession of 5 or more means of identification that unlawfully were produced or obtained, regardless of the number ofindividuals in whose name (or other identifying information) the means of identification were so produced or so obtained.

11. Application of Subsection (b)(14).—Subsection (b)(14) provides a minimum offenselevel in the case of an ongoing, sophisticated operation (e.g., an auto theft ring or “chopshop”) to steal or to receive stolen (A) vehicles or vehicle parts; or (B) goods or chattelsthat are part of a cargo shipment. For purposes of this subsection, “vehicle” means motorvehicle, vessel, or aircraft. A “cargo shipment” includes cargo transported on a railroadcar, bus, steamboat, vessel, or airplane.

12. Gross Receipts Enhancement under Subsection (b)(16)(A).—(A) In General.—For purposes of subsection (b)(16)(A), the defendant shall be considered to have derived more than $1,000,000 in gross receipts if the gross receipts tothe defendant individually, rather than to all participants, exceeded $1,000,000.

(B) Definition.—“Gross receipts from the offense” includes all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, which is obtained directly or indirectly as a result ofsuch offense. See 18 U.S.C. § 982(a)(4).

13. Application of Subsection (b)(16)(B).—(A) Application of Subsection (b)(16)(B)(i).—The following is a non-exhaustive listof factors that the court shall consider in determining whether, as a result of the offense, the safety and soundness of a financial institution was substantially jeopardized:(i) The financial institution became insolvent.

(ii) The financial institution substantially reduced benefits to pensioners or insureds.

(iii) The financial institution was unable on demand to refund fully any deposit, payment, or investment.

(iv) The financial institution was so depleted of its assets as to be forced to mergewith another institution in order to continue active operations.

(v) One or more of the criteria in clauses (i) through (iv) was likely to result fromthe offense but did not result from the offense because of federal governmentintervention, such as a “bailout”.

§2B1.1(B) Application of Subsection (b)(16)(B)(ii).—(i) Definition.—For purposes of this subsection, “organization” has the meaning given that term in Application Note 1 of §8A1.1 (Applicability of ChapterEight).

(ii) In General.—The following is a non-exhaustive list of factors that the courtshall consider in determining whether, as a result of the offense, the solvencyor financial security of an organization that was a publicly traded company orthat had more than 1,000 employees was substantially endangered:(I) The organization became insolvent or suffered a substantial reductionin the value of its assets.

(II) The organization filed for bankruptcy under Chapters 7, 11, or 13 of the Bankruptcy Code (title 11, United States Code).

(III) The organization suffered a substantial reduction in the value of its equity securities or the value of its employee retirement accounts.

(IV) The organization substantially reduced its workforce.

(V) The organization substantially reduced its employee pension benefits.

(VI) The liquidity of the equity securities of a publicly traded company wassubstantially endangered. For example, the company was delisted fromits primary listing exchange, or trading of the company’s securities washalted for more than one full trading day.

(VII) One or more of the criteria in subclauses (I) through (VI) was likely toresult from the offense but did not result from the offense because offederal government intervention, such as a “bailout”.

14. Application of Subsection (b)(18).—(A) Definitions.—For purposes of subsection (b)(18):“Critical infrastructure” means systems and assets vital to national defense, national security, economic security, public health or safety, or any combination ofthose matters. A critical infrastructure may be publicly or privately owned. Examples of critical infrastructures include gas and oil production, storage, and deliverysystems, water supply systems, telecommunications networks, electrical power delivery systems, financing and banking systems, emergency services (including medical, police, fire, and rescue services), transportation systems and services (including highways, mass transit, airlines, and airports), and government operations thatprovide essential services to the public.

“Government entity” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(9).

(B) Subsection (b)(18)(A)(iii).—If the same conduct that forms the basis for an enhancement under subsection (b)(18)(A)(iii) is the only conduct that forms the basis for an enhancement under subsection (b)(16)(B), do not apply the enhancement under subsection (b)(16)(B).

§2B1.115. Application of Subsection (b)(19).—(A) Definitions.—For purposes of subsection (b)(19):“Commodities law” means (i) the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.)and 18 U.S.C. § 1348; and (ii) includes the rules, regulations, and orders issued bythe Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

“Commodity pool operator” has the meaning given that term in section 1a(11) ofthe Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 1a(11)).

“Commodity trading advisor” has the meaning given that term in section 1a(12)of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 1a(12)).

“Futures commission merchant” has the meaning given that term in section 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 1a(28)).

“Introducing broker” has the meaning given that term in section 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 1a(31)).

“Investment adviser” has the meaning given that term in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. § 80b-2(a)(11)).

“Person associated with a broker or dealer” has the meaning given that termin section 3(a)(18) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(18)).

“Person associated with an investment adviser” has the meaning given thatterm in section 202(a)(17) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.

§ 80b-2(a)(17)).

“Registered broker or dealer” has the meaning given that term in section 3(a)(48)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(48)).

“Securities law” (i) means 18 U.S.C. §§ 1348, 1350, and the provisions of law referred to in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.

§ 78c(a)(47)); and (ii) includes the rules, regulations, and orders issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the provisions of law referred to insuch section.

(B) In General.—A conviction under a securities law or commodities law is not required in order for subsection (b)(19) to apply. This subsection would apply in the case of a defendant convicted under a general fraud statute if the defendant’s conduct violated a securities law or commodities law. For example, this subsectionwould apply if an officer of a publicly traded company violated regulations issuedby the Securities and Exchange Commission by fraudulently influencing an independent audit of the company’s financial statements for the purposes of renderingsuch financial statements materially misleading, even if the officer is convicted onlyof wire fraud.

(C) Nonapplicability of §3B1.3 (Abuse of Position of Trust or Use of SpecialSkill).—If subsection (b)(19) applies, do not apply §3B1.3.

16. Cross Reference in Subsection (c)(3).—Subsection (c)(3) provides a cross reference toanother guideline in Chapter Two (Offense Conduct) in cases in which the defendant is §2B1.1convicted of a general fraud statute, and the count of conviction establishes an offenseinvolving fraudulent conduct that is more aptly covered by another guideline. Sometimes, offenses involving fraudulent statements are prosecuted under 18 U.S.C. § 1001, or a similarly general statute, although the offense involves fraudulent conduct that is alsocovered by a more specific statute. Examples include false entries regarding currencytransactions, for which §2S1.3 (Structuring Transactions to Evade Reporting Requirements) likely would be more apt, and false statements to a customs officer, for which§2T3.1 (Evading Import Duties or Restrictions (Smuggling); Receiving or Trafficking inSmuggled Property) likely would be more apt. In certain other cases, the mail or wirefraud statutes, or other relatively broad statutes, are used primarily as jurisdictionalbases for the prosecution of other offenses. For example, a state employee who improperlyinfluenced the award of a contract and used the mails to commit the offense may be prosecuted under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 for fraud involving the deprivation of the intangible rightof honest services. Such a case would be more aptly sentenced pursuant to §2C1.1 (Offering, Giving, Soliciting, or Receiving a Bribe; Extortion Under Color of Official Right;Fraud involving the Deprivation of the Intangible Right to Honest Services of Public Officials; Conspiracy to Defraud by Interference with Governmental Functions).

17. Continuing Financial Crimes Enterprise.—If the defendant is convicted under18 U.S.C. § 225 (relating to a continuing financial crimes enterprise), the offense level is that applicable to the underlying series of offenses comprising the “continuing financialcrimes enterprise”.

18. Partially Completed Offenses.—In the case of a partially completed offense (e.g., anoffense involving a completed theft or fraud that is part of a larger, attempted theft orfraud), the offense level is to be determined in accordance with the provisions of §2X1.1(Attempt, Solicitation, or Conspiracy) whether the conviction is for the substantive offense, the inchoate offense (attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy), or both. See ApplicationNote 4 of the Commentary to §2X1.1.

19. Multiple-Count Indictments.—Some fraudulent schemes may result in multiplecount indictments, depending on the technical elements of the offense. The cumulativeloss produced by a common scheme or course of conduct should be used in determiningthe offense level, regardless of the number of counts of conviction. See Chapter Three, Part D (Multiple Counts).

20. Departure Considerations.—(A) Upward Departure Considerations.—There may be cases in which the offenselevel determined under this guideline substantially understates the seriousness ofthe offense. In such cases, an upward departure may be warranted. The followingis a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider in determiningwhether an upward departure is warranted:(i) A primary objective of the offense was an aggravating, non-monetary objective. For example, a primary objective of the offense was to inflict emotionalharm.

(ii) The offense caused or risked substantial non-monetary harm. For example, the offense caused physical harm, psychological harm, or severe emotionaltrauma, or resulted in a substantial invasion of a privacy interest (through, for example, the theft of personal information such as medical, educational, or financial records). An upward departure would be warranted, for example, in an 18 U.S.C. § 1030 offense involving damage to a protected computer, if, §2B1.1as a result of that offense, death resulted. An upward departure also would bewarranted, for example, in a case involving animal enterprise terrorism under18 U.S.C. § 43, if, in the course of the offense, serious bodily injury or deathresulted, or substantial scientific research or information were destroyed.

Similarly, an upward departure would be warranted in a case involving conduct described in 18 U.S.C. § 670 if the offense resulted in serious bodily injuryor death, including serious bodily injury or death resulting from the use of the pre-retail medical product.

(iii) The offense involved a substantial amount of interest of any kind, financecharges, late fees, penalties, amounts based on an agreed-upon return or rateof return, or other similar costs, not included in the determination of loss for purposes of subsection (b)(1).

(iv) The offense created a risk of substantial loss beyond the loss determined for purposes of subsection (b)(1), such as a risk of a significant disruption of a national financial market.

(v) In a case involving stolen information from a “protected computer”, as definedin 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(2), the defendant sought the stolen information to further a broader criminal purpose.

(vi) In a case involving access devices or unlawfully produced or unlawfully obtained means of identification:(I) The offense caused substantial harm to the victim’s reputation, or the victim suffered a substantial inconvenience related to repairing the victim’s reputation.

(II) An individual whose means of identification the defendant used to obtain unlawful means of identification is erroneously arrested or denieda job because an arrest record has been made in that individual’s name.

(III) The defendant produced or obtained numerous means of identificationwith respect to one individual and essentially assumed that individual’sidentity.

(B) Upward Departure for Debilitating Impact on a Critical Infrastructure.—An upward departure would be warranted in a case in which subsection(b)(18)(A)(iii) applies and the disruption to the critical infrastructure(s) is so substantial as to have a debilitating impact on national security, national economicsecurity, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

(C) Downward Departure Consideration.—There may be cases in which the offense level determined under this guideline substantially overstates the seriousness of the offense. In such cases, a downward departure may be warranted.

For example, a securities fraud involving a fraudulent statement made publicly tothe market may produce an aggregate loss amount that is substantial but diffuse, with relatively small loss amounts suffered by a relatively large number of victims.

In such a case, the loss table in subsection (b)(1) and the victims table in subsection(b)(2) may combine to produce an offense level that substantially overstates the seriousness of the offense. If so, a downward departure may be warranted.

§2B1.1(D) Downward Departure for Major Disaster or Emergency Victims.—If (i) the minimum offense level of level 12 in subsection (b)(12) applies; (ii) the defendantsustained damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused by a major disaster or anemergency as those terms are defined in 42 U.S.C. § 5122; and (iii) the benefitsreceived illegally were only an extension or overpayment of benefits received legitimately, a downward departure may be warranted.

Background: This guideline covers offenses involving theft, stolen property, property damageor destruction, fraud, forgery, and counterfeiting (other than offenses involving altered orcounterfeit bearer obligations of the United States).

Because federal fraud statutes often are broadly written, a single pattern of offense conduct usually can be prosecuted under several code sections, as a result of which the offense ofconviction may be somewhat arbitrary. Furthermore, most fraud statutes cover a broad rangeof conduct with extreme variation in severity. The specific offense characteristics and crossreferences contained in this guideline are designed with these considerations in mind.

The Commission has determined that, ordinarily, the sentences of defendants convictedof federal offenses should reflect the nature and magnitude of the loss caused or intended bytheir crimes. Accordingly, along with other relevant factors under the guidelines, loss servesas a measure of the seriousness of the offense and the defendant’s relative culpability and is a principal factor in determining the offense level under this guideline.

Theft from the person of another, such as pickpocketing or non-forcible purse-snatching, receives an enhanced sentence because of the increased risk of physical injury. This guidelinedoes not include an enhancement for thefts from the person by means of force or fear; suchcrimes are robberies and are covered under §2B3.1 (Robbery).

A minimum offense level of level 14 is provided for offenses involving an organizedscheme to steal vehicles or vehicle parts. Typically, the scope of such activity is substantial, but the value of the property may be particularly difficult to ascertain in individual cases because the stolen property is rapidly resold or otherwise disposed of in the course of the offense.

Therefore, the specific offense characteristic of “organized scheme” is used as an alternative to“loss” in setting a minimum offense level.

Use of false pretenses involving charitable causes and government agencies enhances the sentences of defendants who take advantage of victims’ trust in government or law enforcement agencies or the generosity and charitable motives of victims. Taking advantage of a victim’s self-interest does not mitigate the seriousness of fraudulent conduct; rather, defendantswho exploit victims’ charitable impulses or trust in government create particular social harm.

In a similar vein, a defendant who has been subject to civil or administrative proceedings for the same or similar fraudulent conduct demonstrates aggravated criminal intent and is deserving of additional punishment for not conforming with the requirements of judicial processor orders issued by federal, state, or local administrative agencies.

Offenses that involve the use of financial transactions or financial accounts outside the United States in an effort to conceal illicit profits and criminal conduct involve a particularlyhigh level of sophistication and complexity. These offenses are difficult to detect and requirecostly investigations and prosecutions. Diplomatic processes often must be used to secure testimony and evidence beyond the jurisdiction of United States courts. Consequently, a minimum offense level of level 12 is provided for these offenses.

Subsection (b)(5) implements the instruction to the Commission in section 2 of PublicLaw 105–101 and the directive to the Commission in section 3 of Public Law 110–384.

§2B1.1Subsection (b)(7) implements the directive to the Commission in section 10606 of PublicLaw 111–148.

Subsection (b)(8) implements the directive to the Commission in section 7 of PublicLaw 112–186.

Subsection (b)(9)(D) implements, in a broader form, the directive in section 3 of the College Scholarship Fraud Prevention Act of 2000, Public Law 106–420.

Subsection (b)(10) implements, in a broader form, the instruction to the Commission insection 6(c)(2) of Public Law 105–184.

Subsections (b)(11)(A)(i) and (B)(i) implement the instruction to the Commission in section 4 of the Wireless Telephone Protection Act, Public Law 105–172.

Subsection (b)(11)(C) implements the directive to the Commission in section 4 of the Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998, Public Law 105–318. This subsection focuses principally on an aggravated form of identity theft known as “affirmative identity theft”or “breeding”, in which a defendant uses another individual’s name, social security number, orsome other form of identification (the “means of identification”) to “breed” (i.e., produce or obtain) new or additional forms of identification. Because 18 U.S.C. § 1028(d) broadly defines“means of identification”, the new or additional forms of identification can include items suchas a driver’s license, a credit card, or a bank loan. This subsection provides a minimum offenselevel of level 12, in part because of the seriousness of the offense. The minimum offense levelaccounts for the fact that the means of identification that were “bred” (i.e., produced or obtained) often are within the defendant’s exclusive control, making it difficult for the individualvictim to detect that the victim’s identity has been “stolen.” Generally, the victim does not become aware of the offense until certain harms have already occurred (e.g., a damaged creditrating or an inability to obtain a loan). The minimum offense level also accounts for the nonmonetary harm associated with these types of offenses, much of which may be difficult or impossible to quantify (e.g., harm to the individual’s reputation or credit rating, inconvenience, and other difficulties resulting from the offense). The legislative history of the Identity Theftand Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998 indicates that Congress was especially concerned with providing increased punishment for this type of harm.

Subsection (b)(12) implements the directive in section 5 of Public Law 110–179.

Subsection (b)(13) implements the directive in section 3 of Public Law 112–269.

Subsection (b)(15)(B) implements, in a broader form, the instruction to the Commissionin section 110512 of Public Law 103–322.

Subsection (b)(16)(A) implements, in a broader form, the instruction to the Commissionin section 2507 of Public Law 101–647.

Subsection (b)(16)(B)(i) implements, in a broader form, the instruction to the Commissionin section 961(m) of Public Law 101–73.

Subsection (b)(17) implements the directive in section 209 of Public Law 110–326.

Subsection (b)(18) implements the directive in section 225(b) of Public Law 107–296. Theminimum offense level of level 24 provided in subsection (b)(18)(B) for an offense that resulted§2B1.4in a substantial disruption of a critical infrastructure reflects the serious impact such an offense could have on national security, national economic security, national public health orsafety, or a combination of any of these matters.

###### Historical Note 
 
 Effective November 1, 1987. Amended effective June 15, 1988 (amendment 7); November 1, 1989 (amendments 99–101 and 303); November 1, 1990 (amendments 312, 317, and 361); November 1, 1991 (amendments 364, and 393); November 1, 1993 (amendments 481 and 482); November 1, 1995 (amendment 512);November 1, 1997 (amendment 551); November 1, 1998 (amendment 576); November 1, 2000 (amendment 596); November 1, 2001 (amendment 617); November 1, 2002 (amendments 637, 638, and 646); January 25, 2003 (amendment 647); November 1, 2003 (amendments 653, 654, 655, and 661); November 1, 2004(amendments 665, 666, and 674); November 1, 2005 (amendment 679); November 1, 2006 (amendments 685and 696); November 1, 2007 (amendments 699, 700, and 702); February 6, 2008 (amendment 714); November 1, 2008 (amendments 719 and 725); November 1, 2009 (amendments 726, 733, and 737); November 1, 2010 (amendments 745 and 747); November 1, 2011 (amendment 749); November 1, 2012 (amendment 761);November 1, 2013 (amendments 771, 772, and 777); November 1, 2015 (amendments 791 and 792).